Okay. Hello, everyone. My name is Emmanuel Giuseppe Sposto. I'm a software engineer at
Red Hat. And today I'm talking about the UKI at Donson Extension, how to safely extend
UKI, scan and comma line in E3D. So why this talk? First of all, because this is extremely
new stuff, like it's very new, hopefully also exciting. Because there's not a lot of documentation,
of course, because this stuff was just merged. And hopefully this talk will also help you
understand a little bit more about what they are, how to use these addons and so on. And
because they may be very useful because UKI, as also Vitaly explained in this talk one
hour ago, is pretty static on the point of comma line in E3D. And with these addons,
we can extend it, these two things without sacrificing the security. And also, yeah,
this attempt to advertise a little bit to UKI, so what they are to the more public to
be more recognized. So let's look first at Vitaly's slides. These are from last year,
I think. So I will just briefly go through this. So Confidential VM provides data protection
from the host he runs on. So we are protecting the VM from the hypervisor because it could
be malicious and it's privileged, so we can access the VM and we don't want that. The
host is still able to disrupt the execution of the VM. And there are specific hardware,
SV, SMP and TDX responsible for encrypting memory and CPU. And storage encryption is
necessary for security and must be done by the guest OS. This was already explained by
Vitaly. And usually the situation that we have is that we usually encrypt, we have the
encrypted part and while the kernel is signed by the vendor, in NITRA MFS and the common
line are locally produced, are not signed and also it's difficult to measure them, of
course. Whereas with the UKI unified kernel images, basically a single binary produced
and signed by the vendor, in this case Red Hat. And it basically contains the important
parts, the RP sections together with the signature, there is the kernel, the NITRA MFS and there
is also the common line as a separate section that is then feed to the kernel. Before going
to the next details, I wanted also to explain like the use case, like yeah, the use case
in this case for this talk, that we have the UFI, the firmware that is in terms called
shim the boot loader, which in terms called system distap which is very key piece for
the add-ons and on both the kernel and common line the NITRA MFS which in turn unpacks the
UKI and gets the kernel and runs the OS. The issue that also Vitaly mentioned is that the
kernel line is immutable and is something that we don't like because there are limitations
and you cannot have a static common line for every use case that you have, there is a crash
kernel options, debugging options and we cannot ship different UKI for every basically use
case. So what we are aiming for the UKI kernel common line is it cannot be static as I said
because there are different use case, it has to be secure so whoever modifies the common
line has to be authenticated otherwise the whole point of confidential computing is lost
and by default nobody because the common line is inserted inside the UKI and then is signed
so you cannot modify it anymore and has to be extensible of course because we don't want to
ship a new UKI every single time. There are already ways for the one that are no UKIs to
extend to add kernel common line to a new UKI but it's a little bit when we talk about
confidential virtual machine it's a little bit tricky because as again I'll show you the option
and you need to trust a lot of parts. So as I said there is the common line section it's embedded
in UKI, it's generated with UKI, it's secure, it's shipped with UKI altogether but it's static,
you cannot be modified. Then there is FI shell which is looked by system distable if the common
line section inside the UKI is missing many distro for example they ship always something in the
common line section inside the UKI so it's ignored. It's useful usually for type 1 entries but
again it's unsafe because an attacker can easily inject its own parameter through the FI shell
that's why it was disabled for CVMs so you cannot extend the kernel common line with the FI shell.
There is SM BIOS system management BIOS, embedded metal this is good, it's trusted because it's
coming from firmware and BIOS but it doesn't apply on CVMs again the hypervisor can easily inject
kernel common line. So yeah as I said it's not good so it was also this was disabled
and then there is QM firmware configuration by the name you can already figure that this is
only from QM it's again coming from hypervisor so also disabled. Then what do we do? Our proposal
initially upstream was an allow list basically an allow list is another P section where you
use regex globbing and whatever just something like this to parse the common line that you want to
get and the easy case will be if there is something that we don't accept in the regex we just discard
the whole common line but the common line would come from FI shell SM BIOS all these sources but
we try to filter and system desktop does the parsing. The advantage is of course that we can reject
what we don't want but the problem is just moved to another place because then you can do
attacks on the regex and globbing because they need to be very careful formulated so what's also
this was disabled so was rejected actually and eventually we have the solution the system D solution
nuclei addons. Nuclei addons is basically another separate binary which is contains a
very few P section one of these is the common line and it's signed by yeah can be signed but
should be signed for the CVMs and we take advantage of shim validate function offered by shim
to validate the P signature so basically this means that system desktop will ask shim to validate if
the binary has been signed by some key that we trust in the secure boot database. There is a very
useful tool UQFI in system D upstream it's you can create UQIs very easily very better than
drag up and object copy and you can also create addons and yeah basically the common line is very
easy you can also provide the keys when you want to sign your own addon so it's this is the solution.
So how UQI works the workflow is UQFI first you create the addons so you ask UQFI to create an
addon with the common line that you want then the addons it needs to be put in the specific
location in the ESP I will show you later where exactly is this system this tab looks for this
location and finds automatically the addons asks shim calling shim verify on the addon to verify the
if the addon is trusted so it's signed by somebody that we trust and then if a leadation is successful
we read the addon the system read the addon and appends the common line inside the addon
to the UQI common line section to extend it and then it's provided to VM linux to
start links with the new common line there are two kinds of addons there is global and local
addons so global addons can be applied to all installed UQIs and this is the location and UQFI
UQI specific addons so if you want to apply all these to one specific UQI you have installed
has to be provided in the UQI name has to be in an extra d folder in the same location where your
UQI is and then has to be put in there just naming convention because last time I checked the system
this tab was checking for also the extension name and this kind of stuff so you need to get them
right UQIs are always located in the this part AFI linux UQIs always ends with the AFI and addons
is dot addon dot AFI and specific addons here as I said you need to be located in the extra d
folder okay so next next step is what is but white self so suppose that we as a vendor we
shipped a new key I common line addon and we signed it and everybody's using it and then we figured
the common line as an issue then what do we do because we signed it as a vendor so what it's
trusted first solution just change the certificate so but this is basically impractical yeah good luck
with that yeah we messes up all the measurements you invalidate all the addons so second solution
try to create a blacklist on the cloud provider this is impractical third solution at the station
check if the hash is matching your addon that you don't like anymore and the last solution
these are these s but rules so what is s but is basically another p section inside the UQI
the yeah the addons for example and contains component generation and also other information
but the key part is the component generation table because there is the same table there should be
the same table inside your shim that and then the we are at component level so for example every
Linux PS action has should be should have the its own component generation version for the Linux one
for the addon and so on and if the component generation match with the what shim has we accept
it but if the generation for this component of the addon that is incoming is lower then we have
a mismatch and even if the addon is signed by red dot or whatever it will be rejected
and this part is done by shim when they verifies they are done in checks the s but components
and generation just an example to clarify this in this case we have the shim has s but one myadon
version two and then the addon contains the same version for s but and myadon so it's good it will
be accepted of course has to be signed by somebody we trust in this case the my the addon as the
s but version is correct but my addon component is lower which means that we don't accept it even
if it's signed by whoever we trust in the secure boot database it won't be accepted
one open problem it's combining addons so if you have two separate addons that contain
common line that is safe but together can create a security issue because they enable something
that we don't like how do we do it how do we solve this issue to be honest as of now I couldn't
come up with a concrete example for this and yeah one solution will be to use that station to see if
they are both there talking about the system dc6 in iterative addons so system dc6 already exist
they are already famous so used and what is new is that you can also use them for uki so for what
if you don't know is a system system extends an image extend the base system with an overlay
containing additional files so you can extend base system and you can use this system this
tab provides also the possibility to use this to extend the initer d inside the uki
um more or less is same concept as the common line addons so you just use different tools
because they are different things they are no p binary with p files sections so there are system
extension images and micozi is used instead the uki fi and but the part for example where to put it
is the same the workflow is more or less again the same create a system c6 extension you put it
inside the extra d folder it must be a raw file and then this is the only difference system this
tab will take the initer d the addon and will put it inside the initer d extra c6 folder where the
c6 extension will then load it and apply it to the initer d
yeah who uses this can use these addons the use case are various there are three groups of users
that can use this the vendors for example read that they want to ship we want to debug kernel and uki
and we ship our addon and there are there could be the vstod the virt host admins that can use
host side tools like virt firmware or whatever to modify these these kind of variables more or
less the same use case and the guest admins can add you can use guest side tools like mock to insert
the key insecure boot even though this is a little bit tricky for in the cloud because on
asia it's basically impossible to add a key in mock because when it reboots you cannot connect via
when you connect with the shell you skip the mock reboot section when they ask you to confirm your
key available tools there is a system d has a lot of tools uki fie is the main one in different
version is supported gradually first how to build and then how to inspect them and then there is also
i sent a pr to extend boot ctl to find addons and display already as a preview what will be the
kernel command the full command line so if there is a system d maintainers right
then and there is mico c to create a system d sex the image and then we have a uki director for fedora
there is kernel boot config you can add update and remove uki's and then we and also added kernel
addon which does the same thing for uki addons and the future work what are we planning to do next
maybe an rpm so the vendor ships an rpm with the collection of addons generic addons that we want to
ship signed by the vendor but of course we don't want to pollute the esp with the addons that
the user doesn't need so there was a agreement also upstream to find these two locations user
lib linux extra d for global and the other one for uki specific addons where the rpm should
install these addons and then when the user needs them can simply use kernel addon or just copy the
addon that for example we as a developer ask to for debugging the uki to copy it in the esp
reboot and they will be there yeah on the cloud cloud if they want to allow the user to upload
their own uki addons they need to be a way to inject to inject the owner certificate
otherwise yeah you cannot do it this also there is a little bit an issue with the measurement
because the when you add the user certificate has to be measured in pscr7 especially and the solution
we found is to simply add the dummy addon before performing attestation so the certificate is part
of the in the key ring so it will be attest is measured
on prem more or less the same things who for us is libvirt we want to offer the same possibility
to upload the certificate for secure boot and yeah and there is already a way to add the dummy addon
so that's that's it from my e-talk if you have any question here outside thank you
yes please
uh
so
second comment is on all of the add-ons
Right? Because you can trust the UiViceQ boot mechanism.
Whereas in a confidential computer environment you cannot today use.
I'm not aware of any stack right now that gives you a trustworthy UiViceQ boot environment.
That means you need another mechanism to do that measurement for a confidential computer environment.
The most natural path for that is to use the launch digest.
Because you have the launch measurements, you need to know ahead of time.
When you boot the VM in a way, in a way, in a way at boot time,
all of the data that you need to launch at the end, which means you need to have the UiViceQ ready to be available including all the add-ons.
At which point we go in full circle, I think we are much better off just building a separate UiViceQ for that one set of configuration you're doing.
So you can attest that I'm actually running a set of configuration.
You don't want your debug add-on in your production fleet.
That is, you want to pre-aggressively.
So I think the mechanism that is the most natural one here is to go and build a separate one-off UiViceQ even if they're made of add-ons if you want to.
Okay.
Okay, thank you.
Thank you.
We cannot do a vocation only with a firmware.
The firmware cannot support a vocation mechanism outside of the DDX.
And DDX has both space and around that.
If you have a lot of space, if you ditch the microsoft solution, don't use the microsoft solution.
Thank you.
Bye.
We know how it ends.
Guys, you are more than welcome to present next year if you want.
You are more than welcome to present next year.
You are more than welcome.